.\" KiloNode - Developed by M6VPN (M6VPN@tuta.com)
.\" kilonode/docs/man/kilonodectl.1
.Dd May 27, 2026
.Dt KILONODECTL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kilonodectl
.Nd query a local KiloNode daemon control socket
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl -socket Ar path
.Ar command
.Op Ar arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
connects to the local Unix-domain control socket exposed by
.Xr kilonoded 8
and sends one read-only command.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -socket Ar path
Use the control socket at
.Ar path .
.It Fl -help
Show command usage.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm ping
Check daemon reachability.
.It Cm status
Show daemon status.
.It Cm ports
Show configured ports.
.It Cm stats
Show daemon counters.
.It Cm heard Op Fl -port Ar name
Show heard AX.25 stations.
.It Cm ax25 status
Show read-only AX.25 runtime diagnostics.
.It Cm ax25 params
Show the AX.25 connected-mode parameter snapshot.
.It Cm ax25 connections Op Fl -port Ar name
Show AX.25 connection-table summaries.
.It Cm ax25 connection Ar id
Show one AX.25 connection-table diagnostic record.
.It Cm ax25 counters
Show AX.25 runtime diagnostic counters.
.It Cm ax25 live
Show live RX diagnostic feed status and counters.
.It Cm bbs status | stats | areas | users | messages | message Ar id
Show read-only local BBS state.
.It Cm rx status
Show receive event queue status.
.It Cm rx events Op Fl -limit Ar n | Fl -port Ar name | Fl -from Ar callsign | Fl -to Ar callsign
Show recent receive events.
.It Cm rx event Ar id
Show one receive event.
.It Cm rx sessions Op Fl -port Ar name | Fl -from Ar callsign
Show observed receive-side sessions.
.It Cm rf status
Show RF command ingress status.
.It Cm rf commands Op Fl -limit Ar n | Fl -port Ar name | Fl -from Ar callsign
Show recent RF command events.
.It Cm rf command Ar id
Show one RF command event.
.It Cm rf abuse-status
Show RF command abuse-control status.
.It Cm rf abuse-sources
Show recent RF command source counters.
.It Cm rf abuse-source Ar callsign
Show one RF command source counter entry.
.It Cm rf ignore-list
Show manually ignored RF command sources.
.It Cm tx status
Show transmit policy and queue status.
.It Cm tx queue Op Fl -port Ar name
Show queued outbound frames.
.It Cm tx frame Ar id
Show one queued outbound frame.
.It Cm tx dryrun-ui Fl -port Ar name Fl -from Ar callsign Fl -to Ar callsign Op Fl -via Ar path Fl -text Ar text
Queue a local dry-run UI frame when daemon transmit policy explicitly allows it.
.It Cm tx dispatch-status
Show TX dispatch status.
.It Cm tx dispatch-run Op Fl -port Ar name
Run the TX dispatcher when daemon policy and safety gates allow it.
.It Cm tx gates Op Fl -port Ar name
Show TX safety gate state.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /tmp/kilonode/control.sock
Example local control socket path.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock status
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock ax25 status
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock ax25 params
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock ax25 connections
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock ax25 counters
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock ax25 live
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock tx gates
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock heard
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock bbs messages
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock rx events
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock rx sessions
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock rf status
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock rf commands
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock rf abuse-status
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock rf ignore-list
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock tx status
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock tx queue
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock tx dryrun-ui --port kiss0 --from M6VPN-1 --to CQ --text "hello"
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock tx dispatch-status
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock tx dispatch-run --port mem0
.Dl kilonodectl --socket /tmp/kilonode/control.sock tx gates --port kiss0
.Sh SECURITY NOTES
The control protocol is local-only in this pass. Use filesystem permissions to
limit access to the socket. Real TX dispatch is blocked unless every global and
per-port safety gate is enabled.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kilonoded 8
.Sh AUTHORS
KiloNode is developed by M6VPN.
.Sh LICENSE
ISC License.
