.\" KiloNode - Developed by M6VPN (M6VPN@tuta.com)
.\" kilonode/docs/man/kilonode-monitor.1
.Dd May 27, 2026
.Dt KILONODE-MONITOR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kilonode-monitor
.Nd read KISS streams and print AX.25 monitor lines
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl -stdio
.Nm
.Fl -tcp-connect Ar host Ar port
.Nm
.Fl -tcp-listen Ar host Ar port
.Nm
.Fl -serial Ar device Ar baud
.Nm
.Fl -pty
.Nm
.Fl -unix-connect Ar path
.Nm
.Fl -unix-listen Ar path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads KISS byte streams from one local transport, decodes KISS frames, attempts
AX.25 decode for data frames, and prints deterministic monitor lines.
It is also useful as a receive-only bench helper for inspecting local TCP,
serial, PTY, and Unix socket KISS sources. It never transmits.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -stdio
Read from standard input.
.It Fl -tcp-connect Ar host Ar port
Connect to a TCP KISS endpoint.
.It Fl -tcp-listen Ar host Ar port
Listen for one TCP KISS client.
.It Fl -serial Ar device Ar baud
Open a serial KISS device.
.It Fl -pty
Create a PTY transport and print the slave path to stderr.
.It Fl -unix-connect Ar path
Connect to a Unix socket KISS endpoint.
.It Fl -unix-listen Ar path
Listen for one Unix socket KISS client.
.It Fl -max-frame Ar bytes
Set the maximum KISS frame size.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /tmp/kilonode/kiss.sock
Example Unix socket path.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl kilonode-monitor --stdio < sample.kiss
.Dl kilonode-monitor --tcp-listen 127.0.0.1 8001
.Dl kilonode-monitor --tcp-connect 127.0.0.1 8001 --max-frame 2048
.Sh SECURITY NOTES
Treat captured packet data as hostile. Avoid binding listeners to public
interfaces unless the surrounding system is intentionally isolated. For
receive-only bench work, keep transmitter and PTT paths disabled and validate
daemon TX gates with
.Xr kilonodectl 1 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kilonoded 8
.Sh AUTHORS
KiloNode is developed by M6VPN.
.Sh LICENSE
ISC License.
