.Dd May 27, 2026
.Dt KILONODE-COMPAT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kilonode-compat
.Nd replay KiloNode compatibility lab transcripts
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm check-ax25-loopback
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm run-ax25-loopback
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm run-ax25-loopback-dir
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm ax25-loopback-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-ax25-timer-replay
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm run-ax25-timer-replay
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm run-ax25-timer-replay-dir
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm run-ax25-timer-prepared
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm run-ax25-timer-prepared-dir
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm ax25-timer-replay-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-transcript
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-transcript
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-dir
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm report-transcript
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-observation
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm show-observation
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm observe-process
.Fl -binary Ar path
.Fl -config Ar path
.Fl -name Ar name
.Fl -mode Ar mode
.Fl -input Ar text
.Fl -output Ar path
.Op Fl -timeout Ar seconds
.Nm
.Cm observe-tcp
.Fl -host Ar host
.Fl -port Ar port
.Fl -name Ar name
.Fl -mode Ar mode
.Fl -input Ar text
.Fl -output Ar path
.Op Fl -timeout Ar seconds
.Nm
.Cm make-transcript-from-observation
.Ar path
.Fl -output Ar path
.Nm
.Cm compare-observations
.Ar left
.Ar right
.Nm
.Cm check-capture
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-pack
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm decode-capture
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-capture
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-capture-dir
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm capture-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm capture-to-transcript
.Ar path
.Fl -output Ar path
.Nm
.Cm show-pack
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm pack-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm pack-coverage
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-pack
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm compare-pack-observations
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-bench-pack
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm bench-pack-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-bench-pack
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm bench-coverage
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-bench-expected
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-prepared-expect
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-bench-prepared
.Ar manifest
.Fl -expect Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-bench-diagnostics
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm replay-bench-diagnostics-dir
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm bench-diagnostics-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm manual-workspace-init
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm manual-workspace-check
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm manual-import
.Ar path
.Fl -workspace Ar path
.Op Fl -notes Ar text
.Op Fl -source Ar source
.Nm
.Cm manual-list
.Fl -workspace Ar path
.Nm
.Cm manual-validate
.Fl -workspace Ar path
.Nm
.Cm manual-replay
.Ar id
.Fl -workspace Ar path
.Nm
.Cm manual-replay-all
.Fl -workspace Ar path
.Nm
.Cm manual-report
.Ar id
.Fl -workspace Ar path
.Nm
.Cm manual-summary
.Fl -workspace Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-requirements
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm requirements-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm requirements-coverage
.Ar requirements
.Ar pack
.Nm
.Cm check-command-profiles
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm command-profile-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm check-risk-register
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm risk-report
.Ar path
.Nm
.Cm generate-node-plan
.Ar pack
.Fl -requirements Ar path
.Fl -profiles Ar path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
validates and replays KiloNode-native compatibility transcripts.
The current replay mode is synthetic RF UI command ingress. It can also validate
and store black-box observation files, offline packet-boundary captures, and
observation packs. Receive-only bench capture packs are supported for synthetic
KISS and AX.25 fixture replay.
.Pp
The tool does not run LinBPQ, inspect GPL source, open real transports, or
dispatch queued transmit frames unless the operator explicitly requests a
bounded observation command.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -help
Show command usage.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm check-transcript Ar path
Validate transcript syntax.
.It Cm check-ax25-loopback Ar path
Validate one AX.25 loopback script without running it.
.It Cm run-ax25-loopback Ar path
Run one offline in-memory AX.25 loopback script.
Loopback scripts may include simulator-only I-frame payload commands such as
.Ql event A send-i text="hello"
or
.Ql event A send-i hex=00ff41 .
Segmented simulator payloads use AX.25 params paclen and
.Ql segment=true ,
for example
.Ql params modulo=8 window=1 paclen=5 t1=3000 t2=1000 t3=300000 n2=3
followed by
.Ql event A send-i text="hello world" segment=true .
Payloads remain diagnostics-only and are not bound to shell or BBS sessions.
.It Cm run-ax25-loopback-dir Ar path
Run all
.Pa *.loop
files in sorted order.
.It Cm ax25-loopback-report Ar path
Run one loopback script and print a detailed diagnostic report.
.It Cm check-ax25-timer-replay Ar path
Validate one AX.25 timer replay script without running it.
.It Cm run-ax25-timer-replay Ar path
Run one offline AX.25 timer replay script.
.It Cm run-ax25-timer-replay-dir Ar path
Run all
.Pa *.replay
files in sorted order.
.It Cm run-ax25-timer-prepared Ar path
Run one offline AX.25 timer replay script including prepared-frame assertions.
.It Cm run-ax25-timer-prepared-dir Ar path
Run all timer replay scripts in sorted order including prepared-frame
assertions.
.It Cm ax25-timer-replay-report Ar path
Run one replay and print a detailed timer diagnostic report.
.It Cm replay-transcript Ar path
Replay one transcript and print a text report.
.It Cm replay-dir Ar path
Replay all
.Pa *.transcript
files in sorted order.
.It Cm report-transcript Ar path
Print the parsed transcript fields without replay.
.It Cm check-observation Ar path
Validate one black-box observation file.
.It Cm show-observation Ar path
Print sanitized observation metadata and a bounded output preview.
.It Cm observe-process
Run an explicitly supplied binary with bounded stdout and stderr capture.
.It Cm observe-tcp
Connect to an explicitly supplied TCP endpoint, send one bounded line, and
capture a bounded response.
.It Cm make-transcript-from-observation Ar path Fl -output Ar path
Write a transcript candidate marked as black-box observation data.
.It Cm compare-observations Ar left Ar right
Compare two observations at text level.
.It Cm check-capture Ar path
Validate one packet capture file.
.It Cm check-pack Ar path
Validate an observation pack manifest and referenced files.
.It Cm check-bench-pack Ar path
Validate a receive-only bench capture manifest and referenced captures.
.It Cm decode-capture Ar path
Decode one packet capture and print a bounded packet summary.
.It Cm replay-capture Ar path
Decode one packet capture and compare expected fields.
.It Cm replay-capture-dir Ar path
Replay all
.Pa *.capture
files in sorted order.
.It Cm capture-report Ar path
Print a full capture expectation report.
.It Cm capture-to-transcript Ar path Fl -output Ar path
Write an RF UI transcript candidate from a capture payload.
.It Cm show-pack Ar path
Print sanitized observation pack metadata and fixture lists.
.It Cm pack-report Ar path
Validate an observation pack and print a manifest report.
.It Cm pack-coverage Ar path
Print node command coverage for an observation pack.
.It Cm replay-pack Ar path
Replay transcript fixtures referenced by an observation pack.
.It Cm compare-pack-observations Ar path
Compare observation fixtures in deterministic manifest order.
.It Cm bench-pack-report Ar path
Print a receive-only bench fixture manifest report.
.It Cm replay-bench-pack Ar path
Replay supported bench capture fixtures and skip planned FX.25 placeholders.
.It Cm bench-coverage Ar path
Print receive-only bench fixture coverage counts.
.It Cm check-bench-expected Ar path
Validate AX.25 diagnostic replay expected results.
.It Cm check-prepared-expect Ar path
Validate AX.25 prepared-frame replay expectations.
.It Cm replay-bench-prepared Ar manifest Fl -expect Ar path
Replay a receive-only bench manifest and compare prepared diagnostic frames
against the expected file. The command does not bridge prepared frames to TX.
.It Cm replay-bench-diagnostics Ar path
Replay one bench capture or bench manifest into the offline AX.25 diagnostics
runtime. The command does not open transports, queue frames, or dispatch TX.
.It Cm replay-bench-diagnostics-dir Ar path
Replay all
.Pa *.capture
files in sorted order through the offline AX.25 diagnostics runtime.
.It Cm bench-diagnostics-report Ar path
Print a detailed offline AX.25 diagnostic replay report for one capture.
.It Cm manual-workspace-init Ar path
Create a receive-only manual capture workspace.
.It Cm manual-workspace-check Ar path
Validate a manual capture workspace manifest.
.It Cm manual-import Ar path Fl -workspace Ar path Op Fl -notes Ar text Op Fl -source Ar source
Copy one `.capture` file into a manual workspace, validate it, and add an index
entry. Source may be `manual`, `synthetic`, or `black-box`.
.It Cm manual-list Fl -workspace Ar path
Print indexed manual captures.
.It Cm manual-validate Fl -workspace Ar path
Validate all indexed capture files and update status.
.It Cm manual-replay Ar id Fl -workspace Ar path
Replay one indexed capture through the offline AX.25 diagnostics harness.
.It Cm manual-replay-all Fl -workspace Ar path
Replay all valid or unsupported indexed captures in deterministic index order.
.It Cm manual-report Ar id Fl -workspace Ar path
Replay and print a per-capture report.
.It Cm manual-summary Fl -workspace Ar path
Print status and replay counts for a manual workspace.
.It Cm check-requirements Ar path
Validate a node command requirements planning file.
.It Cm requirements-report Ar path
Print requirement status and priority summaries.
.It Cm requirements-coverage Ar requirements Ar pack
Compare requirements against observation pack coverage.
.It Cm check-command-profiles Ar path
Validate a command profile planning file.
.It Cm command-profile-report Ar path
Print command profile category and blocked summaries.
.It Cm check-risk-register Ar path
Validate that a planning context path is readable and report the default risk
register availability.
.It Cm risk-report Ar path
Print the default compatibility planning risk register.
.It Cm generate-node-plan Ar pack Fl -requirements Ar path Fl -profiles Ar path
Generate conservative requirements and command profile planning files from an
observation pack.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa tests/fixtures/compat
Synthetic KiloNode-native baseline fixtures.
.It Pa tests/fixtures/bench
Synthetic receive-only KISS and AX.25 bench capture fixtures.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
kilonode-compat check-transcript tests/fixtures/compat/rf-ping.transcript
kilonode-compat replay-dir tests/fixtures/compat
kilonode-compat check-observation tests/fixtures/compat/blackbox-node-help.observation
kilonode-compat show-observation tests/fixtures/compat/blackbox-node-help.observation
kilonode-compat replay-capture tests/fixtures/compat/kiss-ui-ping.capture
kilonode-compat capture-to-transcript tests/fixtures/compat/kiss-ui-ping.capture --output /tmp/kilonode-capture.transcript
kilonode-compat check-pack tests/fixtures/compat/linbpq-node/manifest.pack
kilonode-compat pack-coverage tests/fixtures/compat/linbpq-node/manifest.pack
kilonode-compat check-requirements tests/fixtures/compat/linbpq-node/requirements.plan
kilonode-compat command-profile-report tests/fixtures/compat/linbpq-node/command-profiles.plan
kilonode-compat risk-report tests/fixtures/compat/linbpq-node/requirements.plan
kilonode-compat check-bench-pack tests/fixtures/bench/manifest.bench
kilonode-compat replay-bench-pack tests/fixtures/bench/manifest.bench
kilonode-compat bench-coverage tests/fixtures/bench/manifest.bench
kilonode-compat check-prepared-expect tests/fixtures/bench/prepared-frames.expected
kilonode-compat replay-bench-prepared tests/fixtures/bench/manifest.bench --expect tests/fixtures/bench/prepared-frames.expected
kilonode-compat run-ax25-timer-prepared-dir tests/fixtures/ax25-timer
kilonode-compat run-ax25-loopback-dir tests/fixtures/ax25-loopback
kilonode-compat ax25-loopback-report tests/fixtures/ax25-loopback/connect-i-rr-disconnect.loop
.Ed
.Sh SECURITY NOTES
Treat transcript files as hostile input.
Synthetic replay never dispatches TX frames.
AX.25 loopback scripts are offline simulator inputs. They exchange raw AX.25
bytes in memory only and do not expose CONNECT, open transports, enqueue TX, or
dispatch frames.
Future LinBPQ observations must be black-box behaviour only.
LinBPQ is not run automatically; process observation requires an explicit
binary path from the operator.
Packet captures are offline text fixtures in this pass. No live capture, pcap
input, real TNC hardware, or TX dispatch is used.
Observation packs are metadata and fixture lists only. They do not execute
compatibility targets or inspect source trees.
Planning files are requirements, profile, and risk metadata only. They do not
implement BPQ/LinBPQ command compatibility.
Bench capture packs are receive-only fixtures. They do not open hardware,
enqueue TX frames, dispatch frames, or claim FX.25 decode support.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kilonodectl 1 ,
.Xr kilonoded 8
.Sh AUTHORS
M6VPN
.Sh LICENSE
ISC
